.\" This is a Unix manpage. png2ico.txt contains the same text suitable for
.\" reading in Windows (with Notepad, Wordpad, Word,...).
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Matthias S. Benkmann <m.s.b@gmx.net>
.\"
.TH png2ico 1 "1 June 2002"

.SH NAME
png2ico \- convert .PNG file(s) to Windows .ICO icon resource

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B png2ico 
outfile.ico infile1.png [infile2.png ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpng2ico\fP takes the input files and stores them in the output file
as a Windows icon resource. Usually the input files would all represent the
same image in different resolutions (common resolutions are 16x16, 32x32
and 64x64). A program reading the icon resource will pick the image
closest to its desired resolution and will then scale it if necessary.

.SH "FAVICON.ICO"
Most graphical browsers today support the \fIfavicon.ico\fP file. When
a user bookmarks a web page, the browser will automatically check if it finds
a \fIfavicon.ico\fP file on the web server and display it in the bookmark menu.
Depending on the browser and configuration the \fIfavicon.ico\fP may also
appear in other places. 

To create a \fIfavicon.ico\fP simply create a 
16x16 .PNG file and convert it to an icon resource with 
\fBpng2ico\fP. You may of course add other alternative resolutions but most
browsers only use a 16x16 image. Keep in mind that for a user with a slow
modem a \fIfavicon.ico\fP may increase the page loading time by a few seconds
if it is too large, so don't overdo it. Adding a 32x32 alternative
should be enough to make sure the image will look good even in contexts with
larger icons. Adding even more and larger alternatives is unnecessary bloat.

Don't forget that the \fIfavicon.ico\fP may be composed against backgrounds of
different colors so you should use transparency rather than a solid background 
if you want to avoid that your icon appears inside a box.

To add your new \fIfavicon.ico\fP to a web page put it on the server into
the same directory as the web page. That is the 1st place a browser will look.
If it doesn't find an icon there, it checks the top-level directory of the
web server, so by putting it there you can have a default favicon for all
the pages in your domain.
Depending on browser and configuration, the \fIfavicon.ico\fP is not always
rendered, even if it is in one of the above locations, unless the web page 
explicitly declares its presence. To declare that your web page has an icon,
you add the following 2 lines into the \fB<head>\fP section of your page:

.RS
.B <link rel="icon" href="favicon.ico" type="image/x\-icon">

.B <link rel="shortcut\ icon" href="favicon.ico" type="image/x\-icon">
.RE

.SH BUGS
Windows icons may use a maximum of 256 colors, but \fBpng2ico\fP does not
implement proper color reduction. In the very unlikely case that you managed
to use more than 256 colors for an icon image, you will have to reduce the
number of colors before feeding the image to \fBpng2ico\fP.
Note that this does \fInot\fP mean you have to convert your PNGs to 
indexed images before using them with
\fBpng2ico\fP. \fBpng2ico\fP works just fine with RGB images, as long as the
number of colors actually used in the image does not exceed 256.

.SH AUTHOR
Matthias S. Benkmann <m.s.b@gmx.net>.

\fBpng2ico\fP lives at http://www.winterdrache.de/freeware

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR convert(1), 
.BR gimp(1)
